# zola-site

This repository contains my experiments with using the 'zola' static site generator.
I was drawn to this site generator since it is much faster than the hugo + wowchemy
combination that I am using for my personal [website](https://rsvaliveti.github.io).
The other advantages that I saw were the following:

1. The zola "environment" consists of just one executable (i.e., the zola binary)
1. zola has built in support for BibTeX -- and doesn't need python pre-processing
   to parse the BibTeX to generate the TOML/YAML metadata for publications
1. There is a `kodama-theme` for `zola` which is similar to the wowchemy academic
   theme that I am currently using. 

# Directory Structure

- `_bib`: Is a git submodule that links to my publications repo.

- `content/` structured as per `zola` conventions
  - `education/`: section which generates education & awards
  - `papers/`: Section which generates articles & conf papers
  - `patents/`: Section which generates list of patents
  - `work/`: Section which generates articles & conf papers.

- `data/cv`: Contains `cv.yaml` (my resume in YAML format). Close to 
  the JSON Resume schema.

- `scripts/` Contains two python scripts that I am experimenting with:
  - `split-bibtex.py`: Seprates the entries in the BibTeX files for my
    papers & patents into separate directories (one per entry). The
    kodama-theme renders the content automatically
  - `import-bibtex.py`: Parses the BibTex entries and creates one .md
    file per BibTeX entry in the `papers` or `patents` dir as appropriate.
    This requires translating from BibTeX entry fields to the metadata
    expected by the `kodama-theme`.
  - My goal is to avoid the any python pre-processing (if at all possible)

- `static/`: Contains static files for the site
  - `img/`: Contains my profile picture & the site favicon.

- `templates/`: Any overrides for the theme files, or new files created
     for my my site.
   - `publications-bibtex.html`: A template for pages that dislay entries from bibtex files
   - `display-cv.html`: A template for pages that display CV sections
   - `macros`: Contains macros used by the section/page templates

- `themes/`: Includes a git submodule `kodama-themes`

- `config.toml`: Configuration for this site

- `Makefile`: Basic Makefile that supports the various targets I use
  (e.g. process BibTeX files, build site, serve site etc.)

- `pyproject.toml`: This file contains the dependencies for the python 
   environment required by the python scripts in the `scripts/` directory.
   I am using the python dependency manager `rye` for this purpose. 

- `requirements.lock` and `requirements-dev.lock`: Lock files generated by rye

# References

1. https://www.getzola.org/
1. https://adfaure.github.io/kodama-theme/
1. https://github.com/adfaure/kodama-theme
1. https://pdm-project.org/latest/
1. https://rye-up.com/

